---
title: "Advent of Code"
date: 2021-12-25T0:00:00+01:00
draft: false
authorTwitter: "isi_ko404"
cover: "AoC2021.header.bmp"
tags: ["c", "advent", "coding"]
keywords: ["Advent", "Code", "2021"]
description: "I participated at Advent of Code this Year!"
showFullContent: false
readingTime: false
---

This Year, I participated at Advent of Code for the First Time.
If you don't know Advent of Code, it's an advent calendar where you can find small programming tasks from the 1st to the 25th of December every year. These are often related to different areas of computer science, which is why the website is not only used as a calendar but also for learning programming or even as a preparation for coding interviews.

And that was exactly my idea; I had been planning to learn C for a while, but never found a suitable opportunity. So the goal was to solve each of the 25 tasks with raw C, using only the standard libraries. If you know some C, you can guess what a torture this was going to be.

# The tasks
Day 1 I had finished in about 10 minutes, here it was only about finding out in a list of numbers how often the value increases, so I wrote it down relatively fast. The much bigger hurdle was setting up the compiler, because I unfortunately still use a Windows computer, this turned out to be more complicated than I thought. But in the end I got CMake running and I was done for the day.

Days 2-5 were also relatively easy to solve. As time went on, I became more familiar with the language and learned that I could write reusable code, which made some copy/paste work easier. The bigger challenge came on day 6.

Day 6 looked simple at first. You had to model a lanternfish population. The rules were not very complicated; each fish produced a new fish every 7 days, and the first cycle was always 2 days longer, so 9 days instead of 7. The task was to find out how many fish this would result in after 80 or 256 days.

My first approach was to simply store all fish in a long string and then after each day turn `8` into `7`, `7` into `6` and so on. What I didn't think about: In the end there were about 400.000 fishes, which is a bit much to iterate over, especially if you don't know the language and don't write very efficient code. The 2nd, and much better approach was to store the fish in an integer array, with the index indicating the current status in the reproduction cycle.

With this solution, I was able to calculate the fish up to day 80, it only became problematic when the numbers became too large on the 2nd part. I probably could have done this with C too, but I have no idea how to convince the compiler to use the correct data type for the integer array, so I finally did it with Python.

I had the same problem with Day 10.2 and 14.2, so I don't have a solution here. Unfortunately, this also led to the fact that I somewhat lost the desire.  I still did the first part of day 17, but after that I started to work on other things.

# Summary
All in all, I can't find fault with anything, except that maybe it wasn't the smartest idea to write the Advent of Code as my first project in a language like C, which is almost completely unknown to me. Next year I will definitely be back, but then probably with another language, maybe NodeJS or Python. If you want to have a look at what else I've done, you can find the repo [here](https://github.com/isiko/AdventOfCode2021)